# redux_101

## this is an intro to redux

"While redux is a simple file in and of itself (last I saw only 99 lines excluding notes and error checks), its capabilities are far-reaching. Not only that, but simply getting the react framework in conjunction with redux up and running is a very involved process. Reducers, callbacks, and other complications make redux unreasonable for small projects, but it is indispensible in large or very large projects. When React needs to set a state for a certain component resulting from new or varying information from another component, typically the tracing of the callbacks goes back to a mutual file connection (in the file tree for a project in the src, there is only one path from any one file to another) can get far too complex. As our files go, we will not have need for such a powerful tool, but the vast majority of scaled up websites using React also have redux. As such, it is in our best interest to know and be able to work in the front end using both react and redux." -Dan Abramov

Asynchronous JavaScript is a great resource for fast and robust coding. However, as sites and applications get more intricate, the needs to make the file structure manageable and the codebase debuggable get hard to achieve. With Redux, the store is able to manage state and update dependent components readily. The setup of redux is not easy, but once websites get scaled up and file structure becomes less and less manageable, the problem of passing up and down props to children and grandchildren is solved. Te redux_101 file is a good example of this.
